=head1 NAME

treadmill.pl - A LDAP server exercise machine.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<treadmill.pl> [B<-H> I<ldapuri>] [B<-D> I<binddn>] [B<-w> I<passwd>]
[B<--threads> I<num>] [B<--config> I<file>] [B<--profile> I<file>] [B<--smartgen>] 
[B<--throttle> I<milliseconds>] [B<-f> I<file>] [B<--duration> I<seconds>] 
[B<--nostats>] [B<--help>]

* Single letter options mirror those of ldapsearch.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The LDAP Treadmill is a simple perl application that will run a defined set of  operations against a server for an interval or pending CTRL-C. 

The Treadmill defaults are tailored to the example database distributed with B<Symas OpenLDAP>. An LDIF dump of this database has been included with this utility. 

Treadmill is I<not> a benchmarking application since Perl simply won't be able to keep up with OpenLDAP. The operations/second feedback is not indicative of OpenLDAP's true capabilities.

Required non-core Modules:
Net::LDAP
Net::LDAP::LDIF
Net::LDAP::Constant
Term::ReadKey


=over

=item One may also:

=item - Specify custom operation sets and corresponding settings as profiles.

=item - Specify multiple threads with one connection per thread. Each thread runs through the full set of defined operations. 

=item - Automatically generate more pertinent operation parameters by examining the server or parsing an LDIF backup via the "B<--smartgen>" argument.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

B<-H> I<ldapuri> The LDAP server URI to connect to.

B<-D> I<binddn> The DN used for server authentication.

B<-w> I<passwd> The password used for server authentication.

B<--threads> I<num> The number of threads to launch. Each thread generates a somewhat randomized set of operations which it loops until interrupted.

B<--config> I<file> Allows one to specify an alternate configuration file.

B<--profile> I<file> Allows one to specify an alternate profile file.

B<--smartgen> Instructs treadmill to connect to LDAP and read a subset of entries  used to accumulate some statistics and information for more relevant operation generation. 

B<--throttle> I<milliseconds> Thread level throttle value in milliseconds.

If "B<-f>" is used an LDIF file may be substituted which is usually faster.
 
B<-f> I<file> An LDIF file to be substituted for the LDAP server in association with "B<--smartgen>".

B<--duration> I<seconds> Tell treadmill to exit after a set interval of activity. Zero indicates no limit. 
 
B<--nostats> Disables operation rate listing.

B<--help> Print out a brief usage statement.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

There are four prioritized sources of configuration. Settings will be read from these sources in order with each successive source taking precedence. 

=over 

=item 1. treadmill.pl       - Hardcoded defaults. 

=item 2. treadmill.conf     - The main configuration file. 

=item 3. treadmill profiles - more specific configuration.

=item 4. Command line opts  - The final authority.

=back

=cut
